Added Resource limits docs (#288)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/concepts/pages/resources.adoc

= Resource management

> The https://stackable.tech/en/[Stackable data platform] and its xref:operators:index.adoc[] deploy their products in https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/[Containers] within https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/[Pods] using https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/[Statefulsets] or https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSets]. In order for the Kubernetes scheduler to select a proper https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/[Node] for a Pod, https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/[resource] requests and limits for CPU and memory are specified. The Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the sum of the CPU and memory requests does not exceed the capacity of a given Node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The https://stackable.tech/en/[Stackable data platform] and its xref:operators:index.adoc[] deploy their products in https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/[Containers] within https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/[Pods] using https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/[StatefulSets] or https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSets]. In order for the Kubernetes scheduler to select a proper https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/[Node] for a Pod, https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/[resource] requests and limits for CPU and memory are specified. The Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the sum of the CPU and memory requests does not exceed the capacity of a given Node.
```

== Terminology

The most commonly defined resources are CPU and memory (RAM). Keep in mind that there are other resources as well.

=== CPU

==== Requests

The CPU request defines which containers are allowed to have more CPU time. Larger requests lead to more CPU time than smaller requests if not enough resources are available.

==== Limits

> The CPU limit is a hard bound on how much CPU time the Container can use. The Linux Kernel checks to see if the limit is exceeded and waits if this is the case to resume the process.

Reviewer: I think CPU time can be misunderstood as it sometimes refers to (time * CPU load).
Applies to multiple places
```suggestion
The CPU limit is a hard bound on how much CPU resources the Container can use. The Linux Kernel checks to see if the limit is exceeded and waits if this is the case to resume the process.
```

=== Memory

==== Requests

The memory request is used during Kubernetes scheduling and checks which Nodes offer sufficient memory for a Pod to be scheduled.

==== Limits

The memory limit is a hard bound. If a Container tries to use more memory than specified, the Container is usually marked for restart.

=== Storage

> Some Stackable operators and their products require data storage. This is done using https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#persistentvolumeclaims[Persistent Volume Claims] where the size of storage can be specified.

Reviewer: Do we really have operators using pvcs? :thinking:
```suggestion
Some Stackable products require data storage. This is done using https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#persistentvolumeclaims[Persistent Volume Claims] where the size of storage can be specified.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information have a look at he [Kubernetes documentation on reqources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#requests-and-limits)

```

== The Kubernetes way

In Kubernetes, you can specify resource requests and limits within Containers of Pods.

[source, yaml]
----
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: stackable
spec:
  containers:
  - name: stackable
    image: stackable:0.1.0
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: "64Mi"
        cpu: "250m"
      limits:
        memory: "128Mi"
        cpu: "500m"
----

> This Pod/Container will be scheduled on a Node that has at least `64Mi` of memory free. It is allowed to use a maximum amount of `128Mi` of memory or will be restarted if this value is exceeded. It can not use more CPU time than `500m` which is half of a physical or virtual core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Pod/Container will be scheduled on a Node that has at least `64Mi` of memory free. It is allowed to use a maximum amount of `128Mi` of memory or will be restarted if this value is exceeded. It can not use more CPU time than `500m` (which is half of a physical or virtual core), but has a guaranteed CPU resource of 250m it can always use.
```

=== CPU and memory

This is an example on how to specify CPU and memory resources using the Stackable https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/[Custom Resources]:

[source, yaml]
----
---
apiVersion: example.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: ExampleCluster
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  workers: # role-level
    config:
      resources:
        cpu:
          min: 300m
          max: 600m
        memory:
          limit: 3Gi
    roleGroups: # role-group-level
      resources-from-role: # role-group 1
        replicas: 1
      resources-from-role-group: # role-group 2
        replicas: 1
        config:
          resources:
            cpu:
              min: 400m
              max: 800m
            memory:
              limit: 4Gi
----

In this case, the role group `resources-from-role` will inherit the resources specified on the role level. In this case a maximum of `3Gi` memory and `600m` CPU time.

The role group `resources-from-role-group` has maximum of `4Gi` memory and `800m` CPU time (which overrides the role resources).

> IMPORTANT: For Java products the actual used Heap memory is lower than the specified memory limit due to other processes in the Container requiring memory to run as well. This currently is about 0.8 to the specified memory limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: For Java products the actual used Heap memory is lower than the specified memory limit due to other processes in the Container requiring memory to run as well. Currently we only pass 80% of the specified memory limit to the JVM.
```

= Resource management

> The https://stackable.tech/en/[Stackable data platform] and its xref:operators:index.adoc[operators] deploy their products in https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/[Containers] within https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/[Pods] using https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/[StatefulSets] or https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSets]. In order for the Kubernetes scheduler to select a proper https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/[Node] for a Pod, https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/[resource] requests and limits for CPU and memory are required. The Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the sum of the CPU and memory requests does not exceed the capacity of a given Node.

Reviewer: It's not required ;) All our operators don't set any resources.
```suggestion
The https://stackable.tech/en/[Stackable data platform] and its xref:operators:index.adoc[operators] deploy their products in https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/[Containers] within https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/[Pods] using https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/[StatefulSets] or https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSets]. In order for the Kubernetes scheduler to select a proper https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/[Node] for a Pod, https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/[resource] requests and limits for CPU and memory can be specified. The Kubernetes scheduler ensures that the sum of the CPU and memory requests does not exceed the capacity of a given Node.
```

Author: They do by default?

Reviewer: Sry, i meant "All of our operators don't have resources set". k8s does not need you to specify resources
```
k describe pod commons-operator-deployment-6b6d5fcdb7-zjg75 
Name:             commons-operator-deployment-6b6d5fcdb7-zjg75
Namespace:        default
Priority:         0
Service Account:  commons-operator-serviceaccount
Node:             stackable-data-platform-worker3/172.18.0.4
Start Time:       Fri, 23 Sep 2022 09:36:21 +0200
Labels:           app.kubernetes.io/instance=commons-operator
                  app.kubernetes.io/name=commons-operator
                  pod-template-hash=6b6d5fcdb7
Annotations:      <none>
Status:           Running
IP:               10.244.1.2
IPs:
  IP:           10.244.1.2
Controlled By:  ReplicaSet/commons-operator-deployment-6b6d5fcdb7
Containers:
  commons-operator:
    Container ID:   containerd://a057ae2614db8283d58e1f524560dc0842550ccf0660c2117fd601d305a87714
    Image:          docker.stackable.tech/stackable/commons-operator:0.4.0-nightly
    Image ID:       docker.stackable.tech/stackable/commons-operator@sha256:ce717f7f23c3954c4afe7f24385837bd0944a6c955ee15aa100d1c4fb38bd50a
    Port:           <none>
    Host Port:      <none>
    State:          Running
      Started:      Fri, 23 Sep 2022 09:36:36 +0200
    Ready:          True
    Restart Count:  0
    Environment:    <none>
    Mounts:
      /etc/stackable/commons-operator/config-spec from config-spec (rw)
      /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount from kube-api-access-6pqt6 (ro)
Conditions:
  Type              Status
  Initialized       True 
  Ready             True 
  ContainersReady   True 
  PodScheduled      True 
Volumes:
  config-spec:
    Type:      ConfigMap (a volume populated by a ConfigMap)
    Name:      commons-operator-configmap
    Optional:  false
  kube-api-access-6pqt6:
    Type:                    Projected (a volume that contains injected data from multiple sources)
    TokenExpirationSeconds:  3607
    ConfigMapName:           kube-root-ca.crt
    ConfigMapOptional:       <nil>
    DownwardAPI:             true
QoS Class:                   BestEffort
Node-Selectors:              <none>
Tolerations:                 node.kubernetes.io/not-ready:NoExecute op=Exists for 300s
                             node.kubernetes.io/unreachable:NoExecute op=Exists for 300s
Events:                      <none>
```
